we first met started noticing that
andrew had something going on with him
and his health when he started becoming
gradually more tired needing more naps
during the day basically what they found
was that his heart was enlarged they
also did blood work and one of the blood
tests that they performed indicated that
he had on congestive heart failure
we actually saw him three years ago
because there was the thought that he
may need a heart transplant some day and
the family was very interested in our
blood conservation program it was
becoming clearer that transplant was
imminent
the family agreed and we agreed that he
would be best managed here
pre transplant in the hospital to try
and continue to optimize the strategies
for blood conservation we decided to
come from Cape May New Jersey out to
Columbus Ohio to Nationwide Children's
Hospital because it was where we felt we
couldn't receive the best care for us on
dr. Glenn woods performed the surgery
with his team he was able to do it
without blood products and ashley andrew
is ultimately able to go home without
blood products whatsoever there's more
and more data in many fields heart
surgery cancer therapy and others that
show that the risk of death and the risk
of complications are higher in the
groups that receive blood transfusions
than in the groups that don't here at
the heart center at Nationwide
Children's Hospital because we have come
to be so thoroughly invested in blood
conservation and all its benefits we
incorporate those techniques strategies
and thinking at every level pre-surgery
or pre transplant in this case and then
at the surgery or transplant in this
case and then afterwards
but he recovered great I mean he he
basically went through the transplant
very smoothly we have a huge team of
physicians nurses respiratory therapists
etcetera hundreds of people to get
involved with every patient I think
that's why this so unique about our our
program is about is the amount of people
that touch these families he comes back
for intermittent heart biopsies to make
sure he's not rejecting we collaborate
with his primary hospital actually to
make sure his care is quite smooth our
endeavour is to get the best care for
all of our children but we choose to do
it without blood transfusion so that was
our our goal with Andrew basically
Nationwide Children's Hospital was
pretty much the only option for us and
it really is a flagship for our heart
center quite frankly because it brings
people from all over the country to get
this type of care he's growing he's
being bigger much more energetic
actually likes to eat food and Andrews
doing great